Hey guys everything ok.
Marcelo here again this is our last lesson about Gutenburg over the last lesson here learned the basics
about this new word press tool which will gradually replace the editor used so far the tiny MCE WordPress
promises that he'll bring a whole new world to the CMOS.
So much so they they dare to name it after the inventor of the printing press.
Good Amberg.
From what you've seen Gorenberg is really a very powerful tool.
And it looks like it's coming to stay despite the fact that while record this video with America still
has some bugs and hasn't been yet officially released.
We hope that the Wordpress versions after 5.0 showed that the effort was worth it.
There are great expectations and new futures are still to be developed over time for the students of
this course.
My promise is that if any of the new features impact film development I will certainly talk about them.
But as I told you earlier functionalities that have to do and affect only the end user want be the focus
of this course.
OK but just for you to have another taste I'll show you some more cool features that we have here in
Gutenburg.
First here is towbar.
We have this little menu and clicking here shows you a number of interesting actions related to the
document.
For example you can switch between the visual editor and the HMO editor.
This can be very useful for you the developer.
Its also a good way to learn a little more about how the blocks are controlled.
Inside the editor here we have for example a comment that identifies the block itself and we got values
in Jason FIRMAT which are used to save the values for the settings that you pass to each block.
Let's go back to the video editor
another very interesting thing you can do is create re-usable blocks.
Let's assume that the user wants to apply the same settings on all buttons that he or she creates in
posts and pages they can create the first button.
Access does block action menu.
And click on Add to reusable blocks.
Type the name
and now the next time the user adds a button block he or she can only choose these reusable blocks from
here.
Or if you use anything Surtur come here.
And the re-useable just the template that created it isn't it.
And this is the same for several elements.
Another interesting thing is this information button you have here a statistic about the document words
paragraphs and here below.
If we for example add a new heading here
you see the semantic structure of the document quite interesting for the ones who care so much about
SEO.
Well what's your next step from here.
I believe that started doing some tests with the theme make a backup of the installation which is always
good and then installing test Gutenburg on your theme before finally offering it to your client.
But just do it right.
Good Amberg is coming to stay and soon your client will start asking about it.
Another interesting thing you could also learn is how to create your own blocks for Gutenburg.
I want discuss the subject on this course right because it has more to do with plug in development and
this course is not about plug development but it may also be interested in the subject and create your
own blocks.
Just like many developers today that create plugins for their own things.
The official Gutenberg Handbook has a very complete their communication on the subject and I'll leave
the link for you to find out more about it of course.
Well folks that's it.
I hope you enjoyed the lessons.
It was really cool for me to talk about this new world press your depending on when you're watching
this video.
It is not so new.
But I'm sure that the lessons should have helped you a lot.
Well until then I see you next time.